OK.
So from the previous lectures we know how to change the MAC address using these three commands.
By doing it can take Landseer down if can think Lan's your own hash table.
Ethar followed by the MAC address that we want to change our MAC address to and then we do if conflict
Landseer up to enable our interface.
We also learned how to execute system commands from Python using the subprocess module.
So we're going to combine these two things and write a program that'll change the MAC address for us.
So first of all I'm just going to close this from here.
And then all we have to do right now is change ifconfig in here with the commands that we executed here.
So the first command that we want to run is going to be ifconfig line 0 down.
Then you can actually do control the to locate the line that you're currently at.
So I'm going to do control the right here.
Now as you can see I have a new line exactly similar to the previous line.
And in here we're going to do.
Ifconfig line zero haste w Ethar and then input the MAC address.
And let's set it this time 2 0 0 1 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 and we'll set it to 6 6 this time so we can differentiate
it from the previous one.
And finally I'm going to do Control D again because I'm lazy so I guess the line for me and the final
command is going to be ifconfig lands you grow up to enable the interface.
And that's it we're done.
Very very simple.
So very similar to what we did before we're importing the subprocess module first and then we're using
the same function which is the call function which allows us to run system commands and we're on Linux
so we can run any Linux commands and we know that these commands allow us to change the MAC address
we put the interface down first then we set the MAC address that we want to use by do and if config
line zero table you are followed by the MAC address and then we do if config lands zero up to enable
the MAC address.
Now if we execute this script from terminal the script should change the MAC address for us and we won't
have to run these three commands to do it.
So I can run it by going to run here and then run.
But I actually don't want to do that.
I want to run it from a terminal because I actually like running stuff from terminal more because I
can run other commands.
And so that we can run if config after it and make sure that the MAC address did actually change.
So I'm going to go to my terminal and I'm going to navigate to where this project is stored.
Now if we go up here just for a second and hope we're over here you can see that this project is stored
in my user home PI charm Mark changer.
So we're going to do see the pie chart projects.
And by the way you can just press tab as your type in a command and it'll autocomplete for you.
So all I have to do is type mark and tab and as you can see it automatically auto completes the match
changer.
Now if I do ls here to list all the files you can see I have my marked change or script in here and
there on the script as usual.
All you have to do is do Python.
Change or a dot P Y had enter and this didn't show us any errors.
So this is very good.
This means that things did actually work.
And now if we do if conflict line 0 you can see that our mac address got changed to 0 0 1 1 2 2 3 3
4 4 6 6 instead of 5 5.
So this means that our code in here worked and we managed to execute these three system commands through
our Python script.
Now I know what you're thinking.
This is very simple.
All we're doing is just running system commands doesn't really show the power of Python but we're still
at the very start of the lectures.
I'm actually going to spend a little bit more time on this crypt to cover a lot of basics about Python
programming.
So in the next lectures we're going to be building up on this very simple script.
And as we do that I'm going to teach you conditional statements variable's rejects and more.
And this is the style I'm going to follow throughout the whole course.
We're going to be first of all create an escrowed that does something useful and then we'll build up
on that.
So this won't be the only script that we create but we're actually spent some time working and adding
features to the script because as I add features I want to cover Python basics so that I can teach you
more advanced Python programming in the next sections and build more advanced Python programs.